First of all, now, about breakwater, what do you
mean it's an altogether different principle or
principle conceived of differently than it's
been in the past? Well, in the past, the whole
matter of defending, let's say, a coast or a harbor
against waves has been to pile in a lot of rock. This
does some absorption, some reflection. It
interferes with sand flow. It can be disastrous.
It's irreversible. There's no way to really tear
it down once it's built. We see these kinds of
disasters all around the world where it's set up
waves of beach erosion. There's a static approach
of sitting up there obstructing the waves by
putting in a massive... chunks of rocks,
sometimes wired together and cemented together.
This is a much more subtle way of destroying waves,
which is to set something that causes the waves to
destroy themselves. It's driven by the pressure
field and acts against the orbits of the wave. And
what you want is the least dense material rather
than the most dense material. You want it to have
the greatest freedom of motion rather than the
least freedom of motion. And it truly degrades the
waves into eddies, rather than reflecting it to a
great extent, you see. This is why the approaches
to some coasts, to breakwaters, are rather
dangerous, because you have these highly
reflected waves. So it's a totally different
principle. But I don't really limit it to that. The
whole business of intervening into the phase of
the wave rather than the orbits of the wave is quite
a different approach. You have linked yourself
into something that is, in principle, much more
energetic. That isn't quite the right way to say
it, but rather that The velocities involved are
much higher than they are. The rate at which the
wave form is going across the ocean is much higher
than the rate at which the water is moving. Even
Leonardo da Vinci understood that quite well. I
mean, what I mean even. Leonardo da Vinci
understood that one quite well. But see, if you can
link things into this rapid motion of the velocity
of the waveform across the ocean. And so there's a
magnitude greater than the actual water motion.
Most things, like a rubble mount breakwater,
intervene with a orbital motion, a smaller
motion. This intervenes into the waveform
itself. Now, if you can link that in so you get
energy out also, then you've done a much more
effective job. You ordinarily only see this kind
of linkage in the case of surfboarding, for
example. And then it's much degraded because it's
been much slowed down. But the velocities that are
involved, you can already see are very high. But if
you can do this in the open sea, you see you're
talking about velocities of 40 and 50 miles an
hour. You've linked to the pressure gradient.
I know one can't say when an idea first came to him
along this way. I realize that. But roughly when
did you begin to work on the problem in terms of...
Which one? The problem of... The breakwater? The
breakwater problem.
Well, I'd always had this in mind, more or less, in a
kind of a vague, unformed, diaphanous way, since
I'd worked on the torpedo net problem. And every
time I saw... Every time I saw... buoys that were
partly hauled down. I was always impressed by
their tremendously erratic motion. And then I
went talking about it in class. And I said, why
don't we just really see? Why doesn't somebody
take the project to really seeing how one of these
spheres behaves and how much energy it really,
from the wave, it really does dissipate? And one of
the kids and clients took it up and looked at it and
decided, yes, it was out of phase and did dissipate
30 or 40 times the energy that it would if it were
held rigidly. And then he dropped it. And then
another kid took it up and really designed it
through. And he now has his PhD and is working for
the state building these things for the state of
California, investigating the whole potential.
So how do you exactly say when such a thing comes up?
You see, I began to understand some years ago when
we were working with
deep sea moorings, where we made some deep sea
moorings that survived out in the Pacific three or
four years in more than 3,000 fathom of water. But
one of the reasons these survived was that they did
behave something in this fashion. And this
allowed them in a storm to dodge the high waves.
They moved around the high waves rather than over
them. In a storm, the sea is a kind of stochastic
topography of rapidly moving crests, of short
crests. And if you now put a buoy out there that is
hauled down strongly and doesn't weigh much, it
threads its way between these crests in a
complicated pattern. So it never gets hit by the
high waves. It dodges them automatically. And
it's
clear this energy is coming from the waves, and
that it's considerably more than just if the buoy
were floating there and the waves were dragging
against it. So all of this sort of fits together,
and you finally decide, well, maybe this is a real
way to go. So
allow me to try it. So in other words, a whole
combination of ideas, you would argue, in terms of
science, experimenting with both small things
and large things, drifts you into handling big
problems. And that's poorly put. Let me try it this
way. It's that you begin with dealing with
specifics, and then all of a sudden I look up and
you're... And you observe something that's
irrelevant, perhaps, to the specifics you're
looking at. And you store that away, and it's an
experience. Okay, now, like the iceberg, for
example. The other day, for instance, down on the
beaches in Southern California, in Baja,
California, and there's loads of sand dollars,
and the sand is eroding by wind. They're on the
beach, in the dry beach, and the sand is being
driven very rapidly. And these sand dollars, all
of them, are... slowly tilt up on little pinnacles
of sand and take an attitude very much like the
living organism does in the ocean. Well, now
that's strange. You look at 100 or 200 of these
things all standing up at the same angle, little
pinnacle of sand behind them, holding them in that
position. And this is much the position, although
they're not without the pinnacle of sand, that you
see them in the actual ocean. And you begin to
wonder how much of this is mediated through just
the hydrodynamic shape of the sand dollar you see
all facing into the wind all with their top sides
towards the wind all at about almost 60 degrees
inclination all of them sitting there in like an
array of these and sooner or later maybe i get a
chance to maybe do some experiments on various
sorts of creatures that live in a wave, high,
strong wave current regime, like sand dollars,
abysmal clams, and whatnot. Is there shape, a
particular hydrodynamic shape that gives it
desirable properties, allows it to bury itself,
orient itself, or something? Or is this
organically mediated through musculature, you
see? Interesting, isn't it? Yeah. So I think all
kinds of little observations fit together
sometimes. And this is a case of a breakwater
point, where loads of small observations lead you
in some direction or another. I was also thinking
about the concept of bringing down icebergs to
furnish fresh water. How did that occur to me?
Well, I want to know both how it occurred to you, and
then I want your reaction. I remember how it
occurred to me exactly. I was preparing, there was
quite a bit of interest many years ago, and it keeps
coming back periodically, of an underwater
pipeline for Southern California to get its water
from, God knows, Oregon, Washington, British
Columbia, Alaska, whatnot. Stupid idea in my way
of thinking. You don't know what's going on down
there well enough. There are landslides, there
are instabilities. There are all kinds of things,
ships dropping their anchors and on and on. But
nevertheless, you can make the following
calculation. Let's say California needs 5
million acre feet of water a year. OK, you can start
to optimize this. You can make a pipeline. Now, the
power to drive that water down that pipeline
doesn't come free. Even though you build a dam up
there somewhere, you could have made electricity
out of it, you see, rather than driving water. So
you think, well, I will optimize it. very rapidly
realized that presently optimization, just from
the standpoint of loss, of frictional loss, comes
with bigger and bigger pipelines. And presently
you have a pipeline that has all the 5 million acre
feet in it. Well, now you might as well shorten it up
more and just roll it into the ocean and tow it down.
Now you begin to optimize that. It's a different
concept. Well, I was preparing very early in my
days in Scripps, was preparing a talk about the
water problem. And one of the things I wanted to
look at was the pipeline. And when I optimized this
thing, I came out with something that was half a
mile in diameter and five miles long or some such a
thing. And it was optimum towing size. And I
thought, Jesus, such things exist. They're the
secondary tabular icebergs of the South
Atlantic. Let's see how these go. What would be the
milling rate? What would be the thing? And I made
some calculations, and of course you come up with
this interesting case that's a tome north from
Antarctica. You really tome to the east like mad
because of their rotation and Coriolis force, if
you wish. And so these more recent studies by the
Rand Corporation and so on on it... rather
thorough studies, go into the Coriolis force
effect
in a rather erudite fashion. But of course, the
simplest concept in the world gives you exactly
the same answer. It just says you've got to get that
iceberg going 1,000 miles an hour to get it, not in
respect to the water, but in respect to the fixed
reference plane, to get it over the equator. And
you've got to tow it to the east to do this. You've
got to get it going 1,000 miles an hour to the east.
To
the west, sorry. You've got to get it going 1,000
miles an hour to the west to get over the equator.
And you've got to tow essentially westerly.
That's correct, isn't it? Good God, let's see. I
always have to go through this thing. You've got to
tow it to the east. Good heavens, yes. I was rotated
there for a second. You have to tow it to the east.
You have to go on 1,000 miles an hour to bring it
essentially to the velocity of the Earth. Now,
when I first remember reading about concepts of
pulling icebergs to Southern California, Now, I
remember scientists making fun, in fact, of sort
of jiving this concept, if I may use that word. How
do you feel as if when you introduced these ideas
that long ago and it seems to be reaffirmed here in
the present in terms of water shortages and
ecological clashes? Well, I don't think we'll
ever do it in California. You don't think you'll
ever do it? No. Some other country I'll do it. It's
too outlandish. The United States has lost a sense
of adventure. It'll examine that and examine that
until hell froze over. Worry about fogs and worry
about freshwater influences and worry about this
and that. Never tried. What do you attribute the
loss of adventure to? Oh,
I guess sort of a degree of senescence, I would
guess. I don't know, you could erect a thousand
theories on this, I think. We start out with a great
deal of hybrid vigor in the United States. We have
people of all sorts of social proclivities mixing
together. And to some degree they don't mix
anymore, you see. And I believe in heterosis, that
is the strength of hybridization. And it only goes
a generation or two, don't forget, you know. Well,
that may be it. Or it may be we're in the same
position as a person on Easy Street.
Keep your finger on your number, as it were. Don't
take any chances. There are the real concerns of
the environmentalists, of course. You have to
look at these things. They're real. You can't kill
off things in vast numbers. But we've gone
overboard on that. And it's a pendulum swinging
problem. It may swing back again. But I think that
we can't do this sort of thing anymore in the United
States. We can't. We can't.
Such a approach takes the agreement of a lot of
people that you do need the water. You're going to
do it. You're going to take some environmental
losses. You try to minimize those. And it's too
controversial. The congressman has to take the
path of least irritation rather than the path of
rationality. As long as I have you here on the
environment, I have some questions to ask you
later. May I ask them now? Nuclear power. carry on.
You've just been through a referendum here in
California. Do you think referendums on nuclear
power are essentially good things? Referendums
in which way? You mean against or for? Against or
for. Do you think that the public ought to make
these kinds of decisions concerning the
environment? That's what I'm trying to find out.
Well, of course.
In the United States, we've fallen into the
advocative position and of our decisions are made
by a series of advocates.
And this is kind of a long story. I don't want to get
into it too deeply. But there's obviously a
disparity between the scientific approach and
the approach of advocacy. The lawyer picks only
that evidence that supports his position. That's
the way the advocate does.
The scientist is forced into this system, then, to
advise. And the applicative system says you're
either with us or against us in no intermediate
way. The scientist is unable to express his
reservations. He's got to be gung-ho. He's got to
be in that direction or against that direction,
one or the other, no ifs, ands, or buts. And this is
essentially an anathema to a scientist who really
wants to evaluate things. He can't be all for or all
against. This is why the budding scientist has
such a hell of a problem with true, false, and
questions. There aren't any true, false
questions. They're answered true and false.
They're always reservations one way or another.
He either balances the reservations in which he
probably fails, or he knows what the hell stupid
answer the instructor really thinks is correct,
huh? And that's the guy that makes it. But you see,
once he gets out into the real world and has asked
for advice, he really can't do that and preserve
his scientific equilibrium. And so I think we get
into this position of the scientist being
essentially in a hopeless posture as far as
advising on the public the public can't see the
uncertainties and if he expresses the
uncertainties then he's against it whatever well
in the case of nuclear power
it's a long argument there are risks to everything
obviously
I've
I was out in the Pacific and saw the explosion of the
Great Age bombs, many of them, 28 or something
nuclear shots I've seen. I've seen a vast amount of
radioactivity thrown into the coral atolls. The
effect of it has been almost unobservable. The
ocean has an immense resiliency and capacity.
exactly what a major spill would be from a nuclear
power plant, or a failure of containment of fuel. I
really haven't looked into it. Clearly, you'd
have some area that would be off limits. But it
can't be a disaster, you see. It can't be a vast
disaster.
But of course, you see, Then again, we're up
against the other problem of the utilities always
plan for growth of existing areas. So we have this
self-fulfilling forecast in which You want the
power plant to supply power for the city of Los
Angeles because the city of Los Angeles is going to
grow, and then that's the only place it can grow
because that's the only place there's power, and
so on. You know, the idiotic situation we're in. I
would like to see power services put in places
where there aren't anybody. Then they might live
there instead of, well, if they want to all live in
Los Angeles, that's fine with me. It leaves other
places a little freer. But are... The number of
forces that tend to concentrate us into these
areas are insensate forces. There are many of
them. One is the preparation for utilities.
That's one. The other is, of course, loan and
insurance policy and things of this nature. You
can't go out in the back country and build a house.
You can't get a loan on it, and you can't get it. You
don't understand.
Yeah. So... We're forced then to put these nuclear
power plants, if we're going to put them, very
close to highly utilized coastlines.
And intervening into a system that's already has
very dense use. Under those circumstances, that
may be undesirable. if we put one if this were a free
world really planning the accommodation of man
and this planet together why one would put one down
in baja california somewhere
i both admire that and resent that i don't want any
power plants in baja california or any place in the
wilderness i don't think i know that makes sense
ecologically what has to be done
Well, as long as I have you on resilience of ocean, I
read in Newsweek magazine last night, this is like
the fourth or fifth time I've read that, where
Jacques Cousteau, a naturalist, says in 30 years
the ocean would be dead. Do you resent that as a
scientist?
Let's keep that off the record. Okay. I don't want
to be sued.
until I get my defense fund together. All right.
I'll rephrase the question another way, then, I
may, without involving any names. I assume you
believe the ocean is amazingly resilient in terms
of... Resilient, yes. Resilient, I'm sorry,
resilient in terms of recovery. Do you think that
the ocean should be exploited more, move into
things like mariculture,
Well, let's stop at the first statement. The
exploitation of traps has the wrong connotation.
It certainly should be utilized more, and with
good sense, rationality, and dignity. I think it
can be a great deal more. We know a great deal more
about it than we did 30 years ago. I've published
rather extensively on exactly the same business,
including Cousteau, if you wish. And it's right
here.
You probably have that. Yeah. And you don't have a
match, do you? No.
You may, for my answer about Christou, you can read
that into the record right there. Okay. I'll find a
match.
In fact, I had looked at that, and that was one of the
things that interested me last night vis-a-vis
this. Well,
I assume you believe this sort of adverse
publicity towards utilization of the ocean
affects
wrongly the process of oceanographers?
Affects what? That it has a negative... reaction
upon oceanographers? This kind of public opinion
that these sorts of things stir up affects your
work? Well, sure, of course. I
don't really quite know how to answer that
question, but let me say that I myself and a great
number of other oceanographers have had a great
deal of their lives trying to solve problems that
society has in some way or another enunciated,
that it said that they were important problems.
In several of these cases, we've solved these
problems and solved them exquisitely. I mean,
much better than one would have expected they
could have been solved. The understanding of the
pelagic fissures versus the California current,
for instance, I think is understood much better
than anybody 20 years ago who expected was ever
obtainable. We understand really something
about the total nature of the population, how it
fluctuates, what the interrelationships are,
and what it's been like for 2,000 years. We know. I
think we really understand that.
And yet... Public opinion is set up at a number of
thoughtless people who keep saying, don't let the
anchovy go as the sardine did, overfishing, on and
on, and not allow the proper utilization of this
environment. Now, what you tend to leave behind
you here is the debris of dedicated scientists who
are trying to serve society. There's not much to
ask of society to be able to serve it with the best of
your intelligence. Society should be set up in
such a way that you can. I think the desalination
problem, the fisheries problems have left behind
them in their wake a great deal of disillusioned
people who have tried to serve society, advise it,
and then find Not that society doesn't act the way
they thought it should act, but that it doesn't
even consider the findings in the decisions. It
doesn't even consider them. That's the , isn't it?
That's the ultimate coup d'etat.
And so now you find them doing their own thing. Why
the hell should they try to serve society? I mean,
science is interesting. It's a career. Why not
just do it? Do the things you want to do. Don't try to
serve it. It doesn't pay attention to you. See,
it's not a question that you say, well, there's
600,000 tons of anchovies that you ought to be able
to take out here, maybe a million tons, and enrich
California
to a considerable extent, learn a great deal more
about the utilization of this part of the food web,
and so forth, that you should do this. The fact that
society doesn't do that and has archaic
legislation that doesn't allow it to do it, and an
engraved public opinion that will not allow it to
do it. That's not the question that they didn't do
it, but that they don't even consider the
findings. That the people who act on these are
acting only on the basis of the advocates of the
advocates who argue, the public advocates that
argue on one side and don't even consider the
evidence. So you find yourself in the position of
having devoted quite a bit of your life to really
looking into attempting to advise society in
these practical utilizations of the ocean and
then finding that, not that your findings are not
acted on, but rather that your findings are not
even considered. in the evidence, in the
decisions. It's quite a disappointment.